---
date: 2018-01-16
title: Systems
description: Learn how systems are used to update the scene state
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
set: development-guide
set_order: 3
---

<!-- Decentraland scenes that are built with the 'ECS' module -->

Decentraland scenes rely on _systems_ to update the information stored in each entity's [components](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93component%E2%80%93system) as the scene changes.

_systems_ are what make scenes dynamic, as they're able to execute functions periodically on every frame of the scene's game loop. These allow entities in your scene to move continuously, respond to physics rules, have their own AI, etc.

[DIAGRAM : ENTITIY transformed by system]

```ts
export class RotatorSystem {
  constructor() {
    super(Rotation)
  }
  update() {
    for (let i in this.entities) {
      const rotation = this.entities[i].get(Rotation)
      rotation.x += 5
    }
  }
}

const cube = new Entity()

cube.set(new Position(5, 1, 5))
cube.set(new Rotation(0, 0, 0))
cube.set(new BoxShape())

engine.addEntity(cube)
engine.addSystem(new RotatorSystem())
```

In the example above, the system `RotatorySystem` acts upon all entities that have a `Rotation` component. In this case, just the `cube` entity. It executes the `update()` function of each frame of the game loop, changing the _x_ rotation of the cube.

> Note: _Systems_ must be added to the engine so that the engine can call their functions. In the example above, that's done by the line `engine.addSystem(new RotatorSystem())`.

## Required components

To avoid unnecessary work, systems only execute their methods on entities that possess all the required components.

If no components are specified as required, the system runs over all the entities of the scene.

```ts
export class physicsSystem {
  constructor() {
    super(Position, Physics)
  }
  update() {
    for (let i in this.entities) {
      const entity = this.entities[i]
      const position = entity.get(Position)
      const physics = entity.get(Physics)

      position.x += physics.velocity.x
      position.y += physics.velocity.y
      position.z += physics.velocity.z

      physics.velocity.x += physics.acceleration.x
      physics.velocity.y += physics.acceleration.y
      physics.velocity.z += physics.acceleration.z

      }
    }
  }
}
```

In the example above, `physicsSystem` requires entities to have both a `Position` and a `Physics` component.

This system executes an `update()` function on every frame of the game loop. Each time the `update()` function runs, it iterates over all the applicable entities and changes the values on their `Position` and `Physics` components.

- If your scene you has several entities that represent balls, and each has a `Position` and a `Physics` component, then they will be handled by `physicsSystem` and their position and velocity will be updated on every frame.

- If your scene also has a series of other entities like a "hoop" and a "scoreBoard" that only have a `Position` component, then they will be unaffected by `physicsSystem`.

> Tip: If there are entities in your scene that match the required components but that you don't want affected by the system, create a custom component that acts as as a flag, it doesn't need to have any properties in it. Add this component to the entities that you want to affect, and list this component in the requirements of the system.

#### The entity list

Each system keeps track of a list of entities that have all the required components. The system automatically updates this list accordingly each time that:

- A new entity is added to the engine
- An entity is removed from the engine
- An entity adds a new component
- An entity removes a component

In the functions of a system, `this.entities` refers to an array containing all the entities on that list. Typically, the functions in a system iterate over this array, performing the same operations on each.

## The update method

The `update()` method is a boilerplate function you can extend to define the functionality of your system. It's meant to be overwritten and interfaces with the engine in pre-established ways.

The `update()` method of a system is executed periodically, once per every frame of the game loop. This happens automatically, you don't need to explicitly call this function from anywhere in your code.

Most often, the `update()` method is where you add most of the logic implemented by the system.

In a Decentraland scene, you can think of the game loop as the aggregation of all the `update()` functions in your scene's systems.

```ts
update?(deltaTime: number): void
```

deltaTime argument

## Execute when an entity is added

`onAddEntity()` is another boilerplate function of every system. Overwrite it to determine any special behaviors you want to be executed when a new entity is added to the system's entity list.

```ts
onAddEntity?(entity: Entity): void
```

## Execute when an entity is removed

`onRemoveEntity()` is another boilerplate function of every system. Overwrite it to determine any special behaviors you want to be executed when a new entity is removed to the system's entity list.

```ts
onRemoveEntity?(entity: Entity): void
```

## Other system functions

When you define a system, you're extending the `System` class. This class has some handy functions.

The following methods are inherited by all systems:

active: boolean
activate?(engine: Engine): void
hasEntity(entity: Entity): boolean
addEntity(entity: Entity, component?: string): void
removeEntity(entity: Entity): void
meetsRequirements(entity: Entity): boolean

#### Delta time

The `update()` method always receives an argument called `dt` of type `number` (representing _delta time_), even when this argument isn't explicitly declared.

This _delta time_ represents time that it took for the last frame to be processed, in milliseconds.

Decentraland scenes are updated by default at 30 frames per second. This means that the `dt` argument passed to all `update()` methods is generally equal to 30/1000.

If the processing of a frame takes less time than this interval, then the engine will wait the remaining time to keep updates regularly paced and `dt` will remain equal to 30/1000.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH SHORT PROCESS]

If the processing of a frame takes longer than 30/1000 milliseconds, the drawing of that frame is delayed. The engine tries to finish that frame as soon as possible. It then stats the next frame at the point where the last left off and tries to make it last 30/1000 milliseconds as of that point.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH LONG PROCESS]

Ideally, you should try to avoid having your scene reach this situation, as it causes a drop in framerate.

The `dt` variable becomes useful when frame processing exceeds the default time. Assuming that the current frame will take as much time as the previous, this information may be used to calculate how much to adjust change so that it remains steady and in proportion to the lag between frames.

## Use a system as a list

You can define a system with no `update()` method that serves the only purpose of keeping a list of entities that hold the required components.

The list kept by this system could be referenced by another system, as a handy way to have a list of entities that's filtered according to a specific criteria.

```ts
```

## System execution order

In some cases, you might care about what system is executed first by your scene.

For example, you might have a _physics_ system that updates the position of entities in the scene, and another _boundaries_ system that ensures that none of the entities are positioned outside the scene bounds. In this case, you want to make sure that the _physics_ system is executed before the _boundaries_ system so that entities don't move out of bounds after checking for that.

When adding a system to the engine, set an optional `priority` field to determine when it's executed in relation to other systems.

```ts
engine.addSystem(new PhysicsSystem(1))
engine.addSystem(new BoundariesSystem(5))
```

Systems with a lower priority number are executed first, so a system with a priority of _1_ is executed before one of priority _5_.

Systems that aren't given an explicit priority have a default priority of _0_, so these are executed first.

If two systems have the same priority number, there's no sure way to know which of them will be executed first.
