---
date: 2018-01-16
title: Systems and componentSystems
description: Learn how systems are used to update the scene state
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
set: development-guide
set_order: 3
---

<!-- Decentraland scenes that are built with the 'ECS' module -->

Decentraland scenes rely on _systems_ and _componentSystems_ to update the information stored in each entity's [components](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93component%E2%80%93system) as the scene changes.

_systems_ and _componentSystems_ are what make scenes dynamic, as they're able to execute functions periodically on every frame of the scene's game loop. These allow you to make entities in your scene move continuously, respond to physics rules, have their own AI, etc.

Both types differ in that:

- _Systems_ execute their methods over every entity in the scene.
- _componentSystems_ execute their methods upon all entities that contain the components that it lists as required by the ComponentSystem.

[DIAGRAM : ENTITIY transformed by system]

```ts
export class RotatorSystem extends ComponentSystem {
  constructor() {
    super(Rotation)
  }
  update() {
    for (let i in this.entities) {
      const rotation = this.entities[i].get(Rotation)
      rotation.x += 5
    }
  }
}

const cube = new Entity()

cube.set(new Position(5, 1, 5))
cube.set(new Rotation(0, 0, 0))
cube.set(new BoxShape())

engine.addEntity(cube)
engine.addSystem(new RotatorSystem())
```

In the example above, the _ComponentSystem_ `RotatorySystem` acts upon all entities that have a `Rotation` component. It executes the `update()` function of each frame of the game loop.

> Note: _Systems_ and _ComponentSystems_ only act upon a scene if they are added to the engine, as shown above. If they're defined but not added, they have no effect on the scene.

## Required components

ComponentSystems only act upon entities that posses the full list of components that are listed as required by it.

```ts
export class physicsSystem extends ComponentSystem {
  constructor() {
    super(Position, Physics)
  }
  update() {
    for (let i in this.entities) {
      const entity = this.entities[i]
      const position = entity.get(Position)
      const physics = entity.get(Physics)

      position.x += physics.velocity.x
      position.y += physics.velocity.y
      position.z += physics.velocity.z

      physics.velocity.x += physics.acceleration.x
      physics.velocity.y += physics.acceleration.y
      physics.velocity.z += physics.acceleration.z

      }
    }
  }
}
```

In the example above, `physicsSystem` executes an `update()` function on every frame of the game loop. Each time the `update()` function runs, it iterates over all the applicable entities and changes the values on their `Position` component based on calculations using the information on that entity's `Physics` component.

This ComponentSystem requires entities to have a both `Position` and `Physics` component.

- If in your scene you has several "ball" entities that each have a `Position` and a `Physics` component, then they will be handled by `physicsSystem` and their position and velocity will be updated on every frame.

- If your scene also has a series of other entities like a "hoop" and a "scoreBoard" that only have a `Position` component, then they will be unaffected by `physicsSystem`.

> Tip: If there are entities in your scene that match the required components but that you don't want affected by the ComponentSystem, you can create a custom component to act as as a flag and require it by the ComponentSystem.

#### The entity list

In the backend, the ComponentSystem keeps track of a list of entities that have all the components it requires. Each time a new entity is created or deleted, or each time an entity adds or removes one of its component, this list is updated accordingly.

When the ComponentSystem runs one of its methods, `this.entities` refers to an array containing all the entities on that list. Typically, the functions in a ComponentSystem iterate over this array, performing the same operations on each.

## Boilerplate functions

When you define a system, you're either extending the `System` class, or the `ComponentSystem` class. Both of these classes have boilerplate functions that are meant to be overwritten and that interface with the engine in pre-established ways.

For example, any function named `update()` in a system will be executed on every frame of the game loop.

## The update method

The `update()` function in Systems and ComponentSystems is executed periodically, once per every frame of the game loop. In a Decentraland scene, you can think of the game loop as the aggregation of all the `update()` functions in your scene's systems.

Most often, the `update()` method is where you add most of the logic implemented by the system or ComponentSystem.

```ts
```

## Execute when an entity is added

## Execute when an entity is removed

## Execute when scene is mounted

## Execute when scene is unmounted

## Use a ComponentSystem as a list

You could define a ComponentSystem with no `update()` method. This ComponentSystem wouldn't run any code in between frames, but it would keep track of a list of entities that include the required components. This list could be referenced by another ComponentSystem, as a handy way to have a list of entities that's filtered according to a specific criteria.

#### Delta time

The `update()` method always receives an argument called `dt` of type `number` (representing _delta time_), even when this argument isn't explicitly declared.

This _delta time_ represents time that it took for the last frame to be processed, in milliseconds.

Decentraland scenes are updated by default at 30 frames per second. This means that the `dt` argument passed to all `update()` methods is generally equal to 30/1000.

If the processing of a frame takes less time than this interval, then the engine will wait the remaining time to keep updates regularly paced and `dt` will remain equal to 30/1000.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH SHORT PROCESS]

If the processing of a frame takes longer than 30/1000 milliseconds, the drawing of that frame is delayed. The engine tries to finish that frame as soon as possible. It then stats the next frame at the point where the last left off and tries to make it last 30/1000 milliseconds as of that point.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH LONG PROCESS]

Ideally, you should try to avoid having your scene reach this situation, as it causes a drop in framerate.

The `dt` variable becomes useful when frame processing exceeds the default time. Assuming that the current frame will take as much time as the previous, this information may be used to calculate how much to adjust change so that it remains steady and in proportion to the lag between frames.
