---
date: 2018-02-11
title: Text shapes
description: How to add text to your scene
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
---

Add text to a scene using the `TextShape` component. This text sits in a position

Text in Decentraland supports all _utf8_ characters, this includes oriental and special characters.

> Note: This component is useful for in-world labels and UIs that exist in the 3D space of the scene, not for the player's 2D HUD UI.

The `TextShape` component is mutually exclusive with other shape components like primitive shapes and glTF 3D models, see [Shape components]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-02-6-shape-components %}) for more details.

To add text as a label on an existing entity, you create a second entity that has the `TextShape` component and set it as a child of the other entity.

## Create a text component

The following example shows how to create a `TextShape` component and add it to an entity.

```ts
const myEntity = new Entity()
const myText = new TextShape("Hello World!")
myEntity.addComponent(myText)
```

> Note: If the entity with the text component is a child of another entity, then it will be affected by the parent's scale. If the parent is scaled unevenly, this will result in the text also being stretched or compressed.

> Note: `TextShape` components aren't clickable. `OnPointerDown`, `OnPointerUp`, `OnHoverEnter`, and `OnHoverExit` comopnents aren't activated when used on entites that have a `TextShape` component.

## Change the text value

When creating a new text component, you assign it a string to display. This string is stored in the `value` field.

If you want to change the string displayed by the component, you can do so at any time by changing the `value` field.

```ts
myEntity.getComponent(TextShape).value = "new string"
```

## Basic text properties

The `TextShape` component has several properties that can be set to style the text. Below are some of the most common:

- `font`: _Font object_. Font objects are initiated with a value from the _Fonts_ enum, which contains all supported fonts. By default uses _LiberationSans_.
- `fontSize`: _number_.
- `color`: _Color3_ object. _Color3_ objects store an _RBG_ color as three numbers from 0 to 1.

<!--
- `fontFamily`: _string_. Can be a specific font (like _Arial_) or a type of font (_serif_/_sans-serif_). If you list several different fonts, it will attempt with the first and progressively fall back to the next ones. If you are using an uncommon font, it's always recommendable to also list a more generic one, in case a player can't access it.
- `fontWeight`: _string_. Can be _normal_, _bold_, _bolder_, or _lighter_.
-->

- `opacity`: _number_. Set it to less than 1 to make the text translucid.

```ts
const myText = new TextShape("Hello World!")
myText.fontSize = 30
myText.color = Color3.Blue()
myText.font = new Font(Fonts.SansSerif)
```

## Fonts

By default, text in Decenrtaland uses the font `LiberationSans`. To use another font, you need to instance a new `Font` object and assign it to the `font` property of the `TextShape` object.

When instancing a `Font`, you need to pass it a value from the `Fonts` enum. This enum is a list that contains all the supported fonts.

```ts
const myText = new TextShape("Hello World!")
myText.font = new Font(Fonts.SansSerif)
```

The following fonts are currently supported:

- LiberationSans
- SansSerif
- SansSerif_Bold
- SansSerif_Heavy
- SansSerif_Semibold

> TIP: If using VS studio or some other IDE, type `Font.` and you should see a list of suggestions with all of the available fonts.

You can share a same instanced `Font` object accross multiple `TextShape` components.

```ts
const sfFont = new Font(Fonts.SansSerif)

const myText = new TextShape("Hello World!")
myText.font = sfFont

const myText2 = new TextShape("Bye World!")
myText2.font = sfFont
```

## Text alignment and padding properties

The `TextShape` component creates a text box that has a size, padding, etc.

- `hTextAlign`: _string_. Either _left_, _right_ or _center_ (default).
- `vTextAlign`: string. Either _top_, _bottom_ or _center_ (default).
- `width`: _number_. The width of the text box.
- `height`: _number_. The height of the text box.
- `resizeToFit`: _boolean_. If _true_, the font size is adjusted to fit as large as possible in the text box.
- `paddingTop`: _number_. Space between the text and the outline of the text box.
- `paddingRight`: _number_. Space between the text and the outline of the text box.
- `paddingBottom`: _number_. Space between the text and the outline of the text box.
- `paddingLeft`: _number_. Space between the text and the outline of the text box.
- `zIndex`: _number_. Useful for when multiple flat entities occupy the same space, it determines which one to show in front.

> Tip: If a text is meant to float in space, it's a good idea to add a [`Billboard` component]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-01-12-entity-positioning %}#face-the-user) so that the text rotates to always face the player and be legible.

## Text shadow and outline properties

The text has no shadow by default, but you can set the following values to give it a shadow-like effect.

- `shadowBlur`: _number_
- `shadowOffsetX`: _number_
- `shadowOffsetY`: _number_
- `shadowColor`: _Color3_ object. _Color3_ objects store an _RBG_ color as three numbers from 0 to 1.

```ts
myEntity.addComponent(new TextShape("Text with shadow"))
myEntity.getComponent(TextShape).shadowColor = Color3.Gray()
myEntity.getComponent(TextShape).shadowOffsetY = 1
myEntity.getComponent(TextShape).shadowOffsetX = -1
```

Every letter can also have an outline in a different color surrounding its perimeter.

- `outlineWidth`: _number_. How many pixels wide the text outline will be, in all directions. By default _0_, which makes it invisible.
- `outlineColor`: _Color3_ object. _Color3_ objects store an _RBG_ color as three numbers from 0 to 1.

## Multiple lines

If you want your text to span multiple lines, use `\n` as part of the string. The following example has two separate lines of text:

```ts
myEntity.addComponent(new TextShape("This is one line. \nThis is another line"))
```

You can also set up the following properties related to texts with multiple lines:

- `lineCount`: _number_. How many lines of text to fit into the textbox as a maximum. By default _1_. The `textWrapping` property must be _true_ to use more than one line.
- `lineSpacing`: _string_. How much space between each line.
