---
date: 2018-02-14
title: Vector functions
description: Learn what methods can be executed by a Vector object on the SDK.
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
set: development-guide
set_order: 3
---

Decentraland scenes can make use of 2D, 3D and even 4D vectors. Each is defined a different class.

Vector objects have a series of handy methods that you can call to avoid having to deal with vector math operations.

## Vectors

To use vectors in your scene, you need to first import the corresponding library.

```ts
// 3D Vectors
```

3D vectors are also included in some of the components available in the SDK. You can also define a custom component that stores Vector objects as its values.

For example, the `Transform` component contains three vectors, for the _position_, _rotation_ and _scale_ of the entity.

## Shortcuts for writing direction vectors

The following shortcuts exist for defining generic vectors:

- `Vector3.Zero()` returns _(0, 0, 0)_
- `Vector3.Up()` returns _(0, 1, 0)_
- `Vector3.Down()` returns _(0, -1, 0)_
- `Vector3.Left()` returns _(-1, 0, 0)_
- `Vector3.Right()` returns _(1, 0, 0)_
- `Vector3.Forward()` returns _(0, 0, 1)_
- `Vector3.Back()` returns _(0, 0, -1)_

## Add two vectors

The `add` method adds a vector to another. This is equal to adding the _x_, _y_ and _z_ value for the vectors separately.

```ts
myVector.add(anotherVector)
```

## Subtract two vectors

The `subtract` method subtracts a vector from another. This is equal to subtracting the _x_, _y_ and _z_ value for the vectors separately.

```ts
myVector.subtract(anotherVector)
```

## Linear interpolation

Linearly interpolates between two vectors. If you want an entity to move smoothly between two points, this is the easiest way.

The `lerp()` function takes three parameters:

- The origin vector
- The target vector
- The amount, a value from 0 to 1 that represents what fraction of the translation to do.

```ts
const originVector = Vector3.Zero()
const targetVector = Vector3.Forward()

let newPos = Vector3.Lerp(originVector, targetVector, 0.6)
```

     * @param a - The origin vector
     * @param b - The target vector
     * @param fraction - The time fraction (0 to 1)
     * @param ref - The target reference vector
     */
    static lerp(a: Vector3, b: Vector3, fraction: number, ref: Vector3): void;

The linear interpolation algorithm finds an intermediate point in the path between both vectors that is in the same proportion as the time fraction.

For example, if the origin vector is _(0, 0, 0)_ and the target vector is _(10, 0, 10)_:

- Using an amount of 0 would return _(0, 0, 0)_
- Using an amount of 0.3 would return _(3, 0, 3)_
- Using an amount of 1 would return _(10, 0, 10)_

## Distance

Returns the distance between two vectors.

    /**
     * @public
     *
     * @param a - The origin vector
     * @param b - The target vector
     */
    static distance(a: Vector3, b: Vector3): number;

## AngleTo

Returns the angle between two vectors in radians.

    angleTo(vector: Vector3): number;

## Clone

Returns a copy of the vector as a new instance.

    clone(): Vector3;

## Copy

Sets X, Y and Z for this vector based on another vector's value.

    copy(vector: Vector3): void;

## Cross

Cross Product of two vectors.

    cross(vector: Vector3): void;

## Divide two vectors

Divides a vector by another vector.

    divide(vector: Vector3): void;

## Divide by a number

Divides a vector by a number.

    divideScalar(num: number): void;

## Dot product

Dot Product of two vectors.

    dot(vector: Vector3): number;

## Compare

Returns true if two vectors are equal.

    equals(vector: Vector3): boolean;

## Multiply two vectors

Multiplies a vector by another vector.

    multiply(vector: Vector3): void;

## Multiply by a number

Multiplies a vector by a number.

    multiplyScalar(num: number): void;

## Normalize

Makes this vector have a magnitude of 1.

    normalize(): void;

## Make a normalized copy

Returns a new instance of this vector with a magnitude of 1.

    normalized(): Vector3;

## Set value

Sets the initialization values for this vector.

    set(x: number, y: number, z: number): void;

## Convert a vector to a string

Returns a nicely formatted string for this vector.

    toString(): string;

## Get the distance between two points

distanceTo(vector: Vector3) {
return Vector3.distance(this, vector)
}

## Negative vector

static negative(vector: Vector3) {
const v = vector.clone()
v.x _= -1
v.y _= -1
v.z \*= -1
return v
}
