---
date: 2018-01-16
title: Systems
description: Learn how systems are used to update the scene state
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
set: development-guide
set_order: 3
---

<!-- Decentraland scenes that are built with the 'ECS' module -->

Decentraland scenes rely on _systems_ to update the information stored in each entity's [components](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93component%E2%80%93system) as the scene changes.

_systems_ are what make scenes dynamic, they're able to execute functions periodically on every frame of the scene's game loop, changing what will be rendered.

You can have multiple systems in your scene to decouple different behaviors, making your code cleaner and easier to scale. For example, one system might handle physics, another might make an entity move back and forth continuously, another the AI of characters.

Multiple systems can act on a single entity, for example a non-player character might move on its own based on its AI but also be affected by gravity.

[DIAGRAM : ENTITY transformed by system]

```ts
// Define the system
export class MoveSystem implements ISystem {
  //Executed ths function on every frame
  update() {
    // Iterate over the entities in an component group
    for (let entity of myEntityGroup.entities) {
      let transform = entity.get(Transform)
      transform.translate(Vector3.Forward)
    }
  }
}

// Create entities and components
const cube = new Entity()
cube.set(new Transform())

// Add entity to scene
engine.addEntity(cube)

// Add system to engine
engine.addSystem(new MoveSystem())
```

In the example above, the system `MoveSystem` executes the `update()` function of each frame of the game loop, changing position of every entity in the scene.

> Note: You must add a _System_ to the engine before you can call their functions.

## The update method

The `update()` method is a boilerplate function you can extend to define the functionality of a system. It's meant to be overwritten and interfaces with the engine in pre-established ways.

The `update()` method of a system is executed periodically, once per every frame of the game loop. This happens automatically, you don't need to explicitly call this function from anywhere in your code.

Typically, the `update()` method is where you add most of the logic implemented by the system.

In a Decentraland scene, you can think of the game loop as the aggregation of all the `update()` functions in your scene's systems.

## Loop over a component group

Most of the time, you won't want a system's update function to iterate over the entire set of entities in the scene, as this could be very costly in terms of processing power. To avoid this, you can create an [component group]() to keep track of which are the relevant entities, and then have your system iterate over that list.

For example, your scene can have a `PhysicsSystem` that calculates the effect of gravity over the entities of your scene. Some entities in your scene, such as trees, are fixed, so it would make sense to avoid wasting energy in calculating the effects of gravity on these. You can then define a component group that keeps track of entities that aren't fixed and then have `PhysicsSystem` only deal with the entities in this group.

```ts
const notFixedGroup = engine.getComponentGroup(Physics)

export class PhysicsSystem implements ISystem {
  update(dt: number) {
    for (let entity of notFixedGroup.entities) {
      // Calculate effect of physics
    }
  }
}
```

## Execute when an entity is added

`onAddEntity()` is another boilerplate function of every system that you can overwrite with your own code. It determines what happens each time that a new entity is added to the engine.

```ts
onAddEntity(entity: Entity)
```

## Execute when an entity is removed

`onRemoveEntity()` is another boilerplate function of every system that you can overwrite with your own code. It determines what happens when a new entity is removed from the engine.

```ts
onRemoveEntity(entity: Entity)
```

## Activate or Deactivate a system

A system can be activated or deactivated in the engine. Systems are active by default when added to the engine.

If a system isn't active, its functions aren't called by the engine.

```ts
// deactivate system
mySystem.deactivate()

// activate system
mySystem.activate()
```

#### Delta time between frames

The `update()` method always receives an argument called `dt` of type `number` (representing _delta time_), even when this argument isn't explicitly declared.

```ts
export class mySystem implements ISystem {
  update(dt: number) {
    // Update scene
  }
}
```

_delta time_ represents time that it took for the last frame to be processed, in milliseconds.

Decentraland scenes are updated by default at 30 frames per second. This means that the `dt` argument passed to all `update()` methods is generally equal to _30/1000_.

If the processing of a frame takes less time than this interval, then the engine will wait the remaining time to keep updates regularly paced and `dt` will remain equal to _30/1000_.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH SHORT PROCESS]

If the processing of a frame takes longer than _30/1000_ milliseconds, the drawing of that frame is delayed. The engine then tries to finish that frame as soon as possible. It then stats the next frame at the point where the last left off and tries to make it last _30/1000_ milliseconds as of that point.

[DIAGRAM TIMELINE WITH LONG PROCESS]

Ideally, you should try to avoid having your scene reach this situation, as it causes a drop in framerate.

The `dt` variable becomes useful when frame processing exceeds the default time. Assuming that the current frame will take as much time as the previous, this information may be used to calculate how much to adjust change so that it remains steady and in proportion to the lag between frames.

See [entity positioning]() for examples of how to use `dt` to make movement smoother.

## System execution order

In some cases, when you have multiple systems running `update()` functions, you might care about what system is executed first by your scene.

For example, you might have a _physics_ system that updates the position of entities in the scene, and another _boundaries_ system that ensures that none of the entities are positioned outside the scene bounds. In this case, you want to make sure that the _boundaries_ system is executed last, to avoid any movements occurring after validating.

When adding a system to the engine, set an optional `priority` field to determine when the system is executed in relation to other systems.

```ts
engine.addSystem(new PhysicsSystem(1))
engine.addSystem(new BoundariesSystem(5))
```

Systems with a lower priority number are executed first, so a system with a priority of _1_ is executed before one of priority _5_.

Systems that aren't given an explicit priority have a default priority of _0_, so these are executed first.

If two systems have the same priority number, there's no way to know for certain which of them will be executed first.
