---
date: 2018-02-10
title: Sounds
description: Learn how to add sounds to your scene.
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
---

Sound is a great way to provide feedback to player actions and events, background sounds can also give your scene more context and improve the player's immersion into it.

> Note: Keep in mind that sounds are only heard by players who are standing within the parcels that make up the scene where the sound was generated, even if they would otherwise be in hearing range. Players can also turn off sounds on their settings.

Supported sound formats vary depending on the browser, but it's recommended to use _.mp3_.

_.wav_ files are also supported but not generally recommended as they are significantly larger.

## Play sounds

To play a sound, you need the following:

- An `Entity` to use for the sound location.
- An `AudioSource` component, added to that entity.
- An `AudioClip` object, referenced by that component.

```ts
// Create entity
const cube = new Entity()

// Create AudioClip object, holding audio file
const clip = new AudioClip("sounds/carnivalrides.mp3")

// Create AudioSource component, referencing `clip`
const source = new AudioSource(clip)

// Add AudioSource component to entity
cube.addComponent(source)

// Play sound
source.playing = true
```

When creating an `AudioClip` object, you need to provide the path to the location of the sound file.

The sound file must be inside the project folder. In the example above, the audio file is located in a `sounds` folder, which is located at root level of the scene project folder.

> Tip: We recommend keeping your sound files separate in a `/sounds` folder inside your scene.

Each entity can only have a single `AudioSource` component, that can only have a single `AudioClip`. This limitation can be easily overcome by including multiple invisible entities, each with their own sound.

If you set the `playing` property of an `AudioSource` component to _false_, the file is stopped. This means that if you later set `playing` to _true_ again, the sound file will begin from the start again.

## Looping

To keep a sound playing in a continuous loop, set the `loop` field of the `AudioSource` component to _true_ before you start playing it.

```ts
source.loop = true
source.playing = true
```

Looping sounds is especially useful for adding background music or other background sounds.

You can use the `playOnce()` function to play a sound once from start to finish.

```ts
source.playOnce()
```

## Set volume

You can set the `volume` property of the `AudioSource` component to change the volume of a sound.

The volume can be a number from _0_ to _1_.

```ts
source.volume = 0.5
```

> Note: Of course, the volume of a sound is also affected by the distance from the audio source.

## Reuse sound objects

A great way to save processing power is to use a same `AudioClip` object on many `AudioSource` components.

Suppose you have a large amount of balls bouncing around in your scene, and you want to hear a _thump_ sound every time two of them collide. You can add an `AudioSource` component to each ball, and use a single `AudioClip` object on all of these.

<!--
```ts
```
-->

## Streaming sound

You can stream audio from a URL. This is useful to play music directly from an internet radio, or stream a conference into your scene.

The audio in the source must be in one of the following formats: `.mp3`, `ogg`, or `aac`. The source must also be an _https_ URL (_http_ URLs aren't supported), and the source should have [CORS policies (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) that permit externally accessing it. If this is not the case, you might need to set up a server to act as a proxy and expose the stream in a valid way.

To add sound into your scene, simply add an entity with an `AudioStream` component:

```ts
const streamSource = new Entity()
streamSource.addComponent(
  new AudioStream(
    "https://icecast.ravepartyradio.org/ravepartyradio-192.mp3"
  )
)
engine.addEntity(streamSource)

streamSource.getComponent(AudioStream).playing = true
```

> Note: The streamed sound isn't positional, it will be heard at a consistent volume throughout your entire scene. If a player steps out of the scene, they will not hear the streaming at all.

Set the volume of the `AudioStream` component by changing its `volume` property.

Switch the `AudioStream` component on or off by setting its `playing` property to _true_ or _false_.

<!--
## Make an entity play a sound


The `distanceModel` property of the sound component conditions how the player's distance to the sound's source affects its volume. The model can be _linear_, _exponential_ or _inverse_. When using the linear or exponential model, you can also set the `rolloffFactor` property to set the steepness of the curve.

```ts
```

## Volume curves

You can also change how volume levels relate to distance from the sound source to put more or less emphasis on a sound's location.

```ts
```
-->
