---
date: 2018-02-11
title: Builder 101
description: Getting started with the Builder
categories:
  - development-guide
redirect_from:
  - /documentation/scene-files/
type: Document
set: development-guide
set_order: 1
---

The Builder is all about dragging items into a canvas.

The Builder is an on-line tool, you don't need to install anything to use it, simply visit [builder.decentraland.org](builder.decentraland.org).

## Scene size

Scenes are made of several parcels

## Set the ground

The ground is applied to all parcels

## Add items

Navigate the theme categories to find different items that you can place on your scene.

To place them, you can either

- Click and drag them into a specific place in your scene
- Click on them in the item selector, and they will appear in a random location in your scene, you can then adjust them.

## Position items

Click and drag a selected item to drag it, always at ground level.

To move an item with more precision, use the _Move tool_, on the top menu. Each arrow lets you move the item in a single axis at a time. With this tool you can also position things above the ground level.

To rotate an item, select the _Rotate tool_ on the top menu. A gizmo appears on the selected item, and you can use each of the hoops to rotate the item on one axis at a time.

To make an item larger or smaller, select the _scale_ item on the top menu.

Rotate tool

Scale tool

Shift

Multi-select

Delete

Duplicate

## Scene boundaries and limitations

If you reach the scene limits, you

## Preview

## Name your scene

Name appears next to minimap

Description

## Publish your scene

To land

To the scene pool

## Other useful information

- [Design constraints for games]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /design-experience/2018-01-08-design-games %})
- [3D modeling]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /3d-modeling/2018-01-09-3d-models %})
- [Scene limitations]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-01-06-scene-limitations %})
