---
date: 2018-01-01
title: FAQ
redirect_from:
  - /docs/faq
  - /faq
  - /docs/frequently-asked-questions
description: Frequently Asked Questions
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
set: general
set_order: 1
---

## How can I visit Decentraland?

You can access Decentraland's closed beta by creating an avatar in the [avatars page](avatars.decentraland.org), you will enter a waiting list and will be added to the beta soon after. We will be launching on the 20/02/2020.

## What is MANA?

[MANA](https://etherscan.io/token/decentraland) is Decentraland’s fungible, ERC20 cryptocurrency token. MANA is burned, or spent, in exchange for LAND parcels. For a current summary of critical stats like total and circulating supply, please visit our [MANA Token Information](https://transparency.decentraland.org/) transparency dashboard. See the [Glossary](https://docs.decentraland.org/decentraland/glossary/) for more information.

## Will I be able to buy things other than LAND with MANA?

Yes! In addition to burning MANA in exchange for LAND, users will be able to trade MANA with other users in exchange for goods and services hosted within Decentraland.

## What is LAND?

LAND is a non-fungible digital asset maintained in an Ethereum smart contract. LAND is divided into parcels that are referenced using unique x,y cartesian coordinates. Each LAND token includes a record of its coordinates, its owner, and a reference to a content description file or [parcel manifest](https://github.com/decentraland/proposals/blob/master/dsp/0020.mediawiki) that describes and encodes the content the owner wishes to serve on his or her land.

## How large is a tile of LAND?

Land parcels are 16m x 16m, or 52ft x 52ft. Height is restricted based on [these limitations]{{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-01-06-scene-limitations %}).

## What is an Estate?

Like LAND, an estate is a non-fungible digital asset. An estate is an association of two or more directly adjacent parcels of LAND. These parcels must be directly adjacent, and cannot be separated by a road, plaza, or any other parcel. By connecting parcels to form Estates, you can more easily manage your larger LAND holdings. Estates are especially useful when building larger scenes that span more than one parcel.

## How can I buy LAND or Estates in Decentraland?

You can visit the **[Decentraland Marketplace](https://market.decentraland.org)** to browse through all of the available LANDs or Estates of LAND that are currently for sale.

On December 15th, 2017, we held our first LAND auction, called the Terraform Event, to distribute the first parcels of LAND to the community. The auction concluded in January 2018 and LAND tokens have been distributed to participants.

## What does “owning” virtual land mean, and how does it work?

Land within Decentraland is represented by non-fungible LAND tokens (meaning that each is unique and cannot be replicated) that track ownership on the Ethereum blockchain. Owning LAND within Decentraland is akin to owning any other unique, crypto asset like [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/) or [CryptoPunks](https://www.larvalabs.com/cryptopunks), however you will be able to use your LAND within Decentraland to build three dimensional spaces and applications. LAND is
built on our [ERC721](https://github.com/decentraland/erc721) standard, making it a digital asset that can be traded with other users, like other digital assets.

## Why is land scarce?

Like CryptoKitties and CryptoPunks, LAND is a non-fungible digital asset. To ensure that the value of land parcels remains stable, the amount of land in Decentraland corresponds to the fixed, total amount of MANA.

Without LAND scarcity, many parcels would likely be left abandoned, negatively impacting the quality of content in Decentraland and the user experience.

## Does Decentraland run on top of its own blockchain?

Decentraland uses the Ethereum blockchain to store and verify information about LAND ownership and LAND content. It does not run on its own independent blockchain. Content within Decentraland is hosted and served to users via our own content server.

## Who validates transactions?

The Ethereum LAND smart contract registers any changes to the state of a parcel of LAND, such as a change in the contents of the LAND or a transfer of ownership. These changes are recorded and verified by the Ethereum blockchain.

## How is content distributed?

The visual, audio, and three dimensional content of Decentraland will be stored in a network of content servers. Anyone can submit a server to join this network, but it must be voted by the community, this is handled by a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO). When you visit Decentraland, the content needed to render your location will be pulled from the content servers. Each LAND token, stored on the Ethereum blockchain, is associated with an x,y location within the world and links to the content for that location.

## What tools should I use to start building in Decentraland?

There are two ways to create 3D content for Decentraland:

- The [Builder](builder.decentraland.org) is an easy drag and drop visual tool. You have access to a large library of pre-made items, including interactive items that react to player feedback. You can also import and use your own custom 3D models.

- The [SDK]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /getting-started/2018-01-01-installation-guide %}) is for creating scenes writing code, which gives you much more power and flexibility.

Both tools can also be combined. You can create a scene visually with the Builder, then export it and work with its code to add interactive functionality. You can also use the SDK to create [custom smart items]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2020-02-20-smart-items %}) and place these using the Builder.

You will be able to use tools like SketchUp, Blender, and Maya to create 3D models that you can then import into Decentraland, these models must be in _.gltf_ or _.glb_ format.

<!--
## How do I avoid being “boxed-in” by surrounding parcels?

Decentraland’s client design has a number of solutions to this problem, although not all will necessarily be implemented. These solutions may include a ghost mode allowing players to clip through unrestricted parcels, unrestricted teleportation, functionality in plazas that exposes quality content, and design incentives that enable users to create content that doesn’t visually box-in adjacent parcels.
-->

## Will I be able to control who can see content on my parcels?

Yes. You will be able to control how certain content on your parcel is served to other users within the Decentraland platform. For example, you could make 3D models, images, video, or sound content only visible to a user in Decentraland after they have submitted a payment or fulfilled some other requirement.

However, remember that by uploading content to the content servers you are essentially making it publicly available since the content servers are a distributed file system. While we intend to make it possible to limit how that content is served to users through a Decentraland client, the content itself will always remain discoverable on the content servers.

**You will be able to control who you can see and interact with (and who can see and interact with you) within Decentraland.** For example, imagine that you have a house on your parcel and you only want to invite certain friends into your house. You will be able to specify which users you can see (and which users can see you) within your house, but you won’t necessarily be able to prevent anyone from seeing your house or its contents since the assets required to render your house reside on the content server.

## Can I monetize my content?

Yes. You are free to decide whether you will charge other users to access your content and how you will implement said charge. Decentraland is in no way involved in the monetization of your content and does not guarantee any return, profit or income. The success of the platform depends entirely on the efforts of the users. Your fate, your success, and eventually your journey, depends on you, your efforts, your imagination.
