---
date: 2018-01-01
title: Glossary
description: Commont Terms and Definitions
redirect_from:
  - /docs/glossary
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
set: general
set_order: 2
---

### dApp

Short for decentralized application, a dApp is any application that is designed to run on a blockchain network, like Ethereum.

### District

Groups of adjacent parcels that share similar user interests. You can find a list of Districts with their documentation on our [Community Wiki](https://wiki.decentraland.org/index.php?title=About_Districts). For a record of the original district proposals, please see [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/decentraland/districts).

### ERC20 Token

A fungible (reproducible or interchangeable) token built using an Ethereum smart contract according to the [ERC-20 Token Standard](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-20-token-standard.md). MANA is Decentraland’s ERC20 token.

### Ethereum

A decentralized platform for building applications based on smart contracts. Decentraland is being built on the Ethereum platform. For more information, please visit https://www.ethereum.org/

### Fungible Token

A fungible token is any token whose fundamental unit or characteristic is interchangeable with other tokens of the same set. In other words, fungible tokens are not unique. Examples of fungible tokens are Decentraland’s MANA or Ethereum’s Ether.

### Genesis City

The geographic center of Decentraland, set at an area of 90,000 parcels, with 36,041 parcels dedicated to community districts. The remaining parcels of Genesis City were auctioned to users during the Terraform Event, or LAND auction. [You can find a summary of the land auction here.](https://auction.decentraland.org/stats)

### IPFS

IPFS stands for the Inter-Planetary File System, a blockchain based system for hosting and serving content. The content of Decentraland will be served via IPFS. For more information, please see https://ipfs.io/

### IPNS

Short for Inter-Planetary Naming System, allows the creation of a text name reference to an IPFS item. This is very similar to the way in which traditional text domain names are references to numerical IP addresses.

### LAND

LAND is a scarce, non-fungible digital asset maintained in an Ethereum smart contract that represents the parcels of virtual land within Decentraland.

### MANA

MANA is Decentraland’s fungible, ERC20 cryptocurrency token limited to a total supply of 2,805,886,393, with a future yearly inflation of 224,470,911 MANA, currently disabled . While this inflation constant has been included in the design of the token, we have no plans to initiate the inflation until necessary. You can find detailed statistics for MANA on our [MANA Token Information](https://transparency.decentraland.org/) board.

### MetaMask

A browser extension that allows you to access and run dApps without running an entire node on the Ethereum blockchain. For more information, and to install MetaMask to begin using Decentraland’s features, please see https://metamask.io/

### Non-Fungible Token

In contrast to a fungible token, non-fungible tokens are unique, distinguishable digital assets. The information contained within a non-fungible token is unique to that token, like a serial number or coordinates for a parcel of LAND in Decentraland. This means that one non-fungible token can never be swapped, or exchanged, for any other token. Decentraland’s LAND is one example of a non-fungible digital asset, along with CryptoKitties or CryptoPunks.

### Parcel

A 10m by 10m piece of LAND within Decentraland.

### Scene

A scene within Decentraland comprises the 3D objects, textures, and audio content rendered on a LAND parcel or group of parcels.

### Smart Contract

A smart contract is simply a program on the Ethereum blockchain that facilitates and verifies digital transactions. Ethereum smart contracts enable developers to build decentralized applications that can track and transfer ownership of digital assets on a trustless network.

### WebVR

A web platform allowing users to experience virtual reality environments within a web browser.
