---
date: 2018-02-01
title: CLI Release notes
description: Release notes of the Decentraland CLI
categories:
  - releases
  - sdk
type: Document
set: releases
set_order: 6
---

## 1.4.0

- Simplified process for building scenes. Running `dcl init` no longer asks you questions about the scene. To provide information like scene owner or what parcels to deploy, edit the `scene.json` file directly.

  > Note: To create a scene using a different template from the default, clone one of the existing [sample scenes]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /examples/2018-01-08-sample-scenes %}).

- Support for deploying to estates comprised of multiple parcels. When deploying to an estate, you must set the estate ID and the parcel coordinates in the `scene.json` file. It's no longer supported to deploy to multiple separate parcels if they're not merged into an estate on the marketplace.

  See [marketplace docs]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /blockchain-interactions/2018-01-01-marketplace %}) for instructions on how to create an estate.

- Support for estates when using the `dcl info` command.

- Various bug fixes and performance improvements.

## 1.3.0

- Rebrand `metaverse-api` -> `decentraland-api`
- Decentraland scenes can now be uploaded to services like [zeit.co/now](https://zeit.co/now) and other platforms. This can be used to share scenes in an easier way and to automate testing. To do this you must make these modifications to the package.json file:

  - Add a new `now-start` command that runs `dcl start` but adds a `ci` flag: `dcl start --ci`. This prevents analytics and browser launching, which interferes with several platforms.
  - Add `"decentraland":"latest"` as a devDependency in the project.

```json
{
  "name": "dcl-project",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My new Decentraland project",
  "scripts": {
    "start": "dcl start",
    "now-start": "dcl start --ci",
    "build": "decentraland-compiler build.json",
    "watch": "decentraland-compiler build.json --watch"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "MIT",
  "devDependencies": {
    "decentraland-api": "latest",
    "decentraland": "latest"
  }
}
```

- The CLI now supports keeping your LAND tokens in a physical Ledger device. Read more about this in [publishing](({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /deploy/2018-01-07-publishing %}))
- added a "no-watch" functionality to preview
- new UI for showing metadata when deploying a scene
- add a map of Decentraland marking the scene's base parcel when deploying
- show etherscan ropsten link on dev mode
- finish pending tracking analytics on non-blocking scheme
- fixed bug with hot reloading
- fixed but with linker-app only closes at tx success
  ...and lots of tiny bug fixes!
