---
date: 2018-01-02
title: SDK Release 4.1.0
description: Release notes of the 4.1.0 version and other minor releases
categories:
  - releases
  - sdk
type: Document
---

> Note: This version of the SDK is now deprecated. You can find the full documentation for this version in the [legacy documentation](https://docs-legacy.decentraland.org/)

## 4.1.1

- Fixed the method for signing using an ethereum address.
- Performance improvements.
- Ambient/sky improvements in preview.
- Added joystick in mobile view.

## 4.1.0

- A few packages have been rebranded:

  - metaverse-api is now decentraland-api
  - metaverse-rpc is now decentraland-rpc
  - metaverse-compiler is now decentraland-compiler

When migrating a scene to 4.1.0, keep in mind that the first lines of the file that import from `metaverse-api` must be changed to import from `decentraland-api`.

{% raw %}

```tsx
import * as DCL from "decentraland-api"
import { Vector3Component } from "decentraland-api"
```

{% endraw %}

- The new `onClick` handler can be added to any entity to handle click events in the same way that React handles clicks. This can greatly simplify scene code, for example:

**Old way**

{% raw %}

```tsx
import * as DCL from "decentraland-api"

export default class InteractiveCubeScene extends DCL.ScriptableScene {
  state = {
    size: 1,
  }

  sceneDidMount() {
    this.eventSubscriber.on("interactiveBox_click", async () => {
      this.resizeBox()
    })
  }

  resizeBox = () => {
    this.setState({ size: Math.random() * 3 })
  }

  async render() {
    return (
      <scene>
        <box
          id="interactiveBox"
          withCollisions
          scale={this.state.size}
          position={{ x: 5, y: 1, z: 5 }}
        />
      </scene>
    )
  }
}
```

{% endraw %}

**New way**

{% raw %}

```tsx
import * as DCL from "decentraland-api"

export default class InteractiveCubeScene extends DCL.ScriptableScene {
  state = {
    size: 1,
  }

  resizeBox = () => {
    this.setState({ size: Math.random() * 3 })
  }

  async render() {
    return (
      <scene>
        <box
          onClick={this.resizeBox}
          withCollisions
          scale={this.state.size}
          position={{ x: 5, y: 1, z: 5 }}
        />
      </scene>
    )
  }
}
```

{% endraw %}

Note that the new way saves you from having to create and subscribe to a click event, and attaching and ID to every element that needs to handle a click. Using this handler, the entity doesn't require an ID to be clicked. All you need to do is pass a function through an `onClick` JSX attribute and enjoy!

- The parcel limits are now inclusive.

Before, entities couldn't reach the border of the scene's parcels, you needed to limit positions to something like `{ x: 9.9, y:1, z: 9.9}` in a 1 parcel scene. Now you can position things up to the very limit of the parcels, so on a 1 parcel scene entities can reach `{ x: 10, y:1, z: 10}`

- Static scenes have better performance

- A bug was fixed where an entity's `lookAt` value couldn't be the same as the value for `position`. This was problematic in scenarios where you need a character to move slowly towards a position (with a transition) and look in that direction as it does. Now this scenario is fully supported.

- Preview scenes have a new lighting configuration. Previous lighting conditions were too bright and didn't allow the geometry of certain shapes to be seen clearly.

#### Migrate a scene to 4.1.0

To migrate a scene built with an earlier version to 4.1.0, follow these steps:

- Delete the file _package-lock.json_
- Delete the folder _node_modules_
- In _scene.tsx_, change all imports from _metaverse-api_ to _decentraland-api_. For example:

```tsx
import * as DCL from "decentraland-api"
```

- Modify the _package.json_ file to change the following:
  - Change `metaverse-compiler` into `decentraland-compiler`.
  - Change `metaverse-api` into `decentraland-api`.
  - Add `"decentraland": "latest"` in devDependencies.
    The file should look something like this:

```tsx
{
  "name": "dcl-project",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My new Decentraland project",
  "scripts": {
    "start": "dcl start",
    "build": "decentraland-compiler build.json",
    "watch": "decentraland-compiler build.json --watch"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "MIT",
  "devDependencies": {
    "decentraland-api": "latest",
    "decentraland": "latest"
  }
}
```

- Run `npm install` or `dcl start` to build new versions of _package-lock.json_ and _node_modules_ based on the dependencies of the new version.
- If your scene included any special dependencies, like Babylon or Axios, install them again with `npm`.
