---
date: 2019-01-09
title: SDK Release 5.0.0
description: Release notes of the 5.0.0 version and other minor releases
categories:
  - releases
  - sdk
type: Document
set: releases
set_order: 1
---

## 5.1

This release includes the following new features

- UI: You can now create an overlay UI that opens on your scene. See [Onscreen UI]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-02-15-onscreen-ui %}) for details.

- Improved audio engine: Multiple audio samples can be played at once. Also, each audio sample has a specific location. See [Sounds]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-02-10-sounds %}) for details.


  ```ts
  const trevor = new Entity()

  //Create audio clip
  const audioClip = new AudioClip("sounds/Vexento.ogg")
  audioClip.loop = true

  //Create audio source
  const audioSource = new AudioSource(audioClip)
  trevor.addComponent(audioSource)

  engine.addEntity(trevor)
  ```

- Custom events are now possible, using functions to emit and listen for them.

This version includes several bug fixes and optimizations. It also includes the following changes:

- 3D model animations are now handled by an `Animator` component, instead of by the `GLTFModel` component.

  ```ts
  let shark = new Entity()
  // Create Animator component
  const animator = new Animator()
  shark.addComponent(animator)

  // Create animation clips
  let clipSwim = new AnimationState("swim")
  let clipBite = new AnimationState("bite")
  animator.addClip(clipBite)
  animator.addClip(clipSwim)

  // Activate swim animation
  clipSwim.play()

  engine.addEntity(shark)
  ```

- Textures are now handled by a specialized `Texture` component, that can be referenced by a `Material` component.

  ```ts
  let wheel1 = new Entity()

  // Create texture
  const spiralTexture = new Texture()
  myTexture.src = "materials/hypno-wheel.png"

  // Create material
  let spiralMaterial = new Material()
  spiralMaterial.albedoTexture = spiralTexture

  // Add material to wheels
  wheel1.addComponent(spiralMaterial)

  engine.addEntity(wheel1)
  ```

- Billboard mode is now done via a separate specialized component, instead of by setting a property in shape components.

  ```ts
  let box = new Entity()
  box.addComponent(new BoxShape())
  box.addComponent(new Transform({
    position: new Vector3(5, 1, 5)
  }))
  box.addComponent(new Billboard())
  engine.addEntity(box)
  ```

- Each parcel now measures 16 x 16 meters. This was decided via a vote by the community. New scenes created with the CLI are 16 x 16, old scenes remain as 10 x 10, but we recommend migrating to a 16 x 16 format. Scene limitations per each parcel haven't changed since 5.0.

- Basic commands for handling components are renamed for more clarity. For example `get` is now `getComponent`, `add` is now `addComponent` and `set` is now `addComponentOrReplace`.

See the []()  migration guide for clear examples of how to migrate your code.

Read the release announcement []() blogpost for more details about these new features!

> Note: All 3D models are now rotated 180 degrees along the Y axis to follow standards that are consistent with most other platforms. Any 3D models in your scene will now be rendered facing backwards. You may have to reposition or rotate your entities to compensate for this new rotation. Also, we now check that 3D models are within scene bounds by looking at the bounding boxes, not at each individual vertex. This is a lot more efficient, but some 3D models may have empty bounding boxes that stretch far beyond the vertexes. If that's the case, you'll have to clean up the 3D model so that the bounding boxes more closely match the vertexes of the model.

## 5.0

This release introduces a new Entity Component System architecture. There are no new features, but the entire SDK has been rewritten based on the new paradigm.

The following features aren't currently supported in this implementation:

- Video
- Audio is only partially supported

You can find a detailed announcement of this release and the reasons for it in [this blogpost](https://decentraland.org/blog/announcements/announcing-decentralands-new-sdk).
